Ten SMMEs received their SAQA accredited NQF certificates at the announcement of the completion of the construction of a 4,5km community access road in Mzamba in the Mbizana Local Municipality.  The road construction project, which started in June 2016 took two years to complete and is part of the community development and small, medium and micro-sized enterprises (SMME) training programme which forms part of small business support strategies to optimise local economic development through the N2 Wild Coast Toll Road (N2WCTR) development in the Eastern Cape. “The area has benefitted from the contract as the improvement of skills and knowledge has been critical to the built-environment capacity development within the municipality to assist the municipality to be able to support the provision of Sustainable Rural Local Economic Development,” said Welekazi Ndika, SANRAL Southern Region’s Stakeholder Relations Coordinator. In addition to the completion of the access roads, the community hall was also refurbished. Chief Lunga Baleni said he was happy the project had been completed. “I hope this relationship with SANRAL will continue. I would like to encourage SANRAL to continue with their community development programmes in our area,” said Baleni. Mbizana Local Municipal Mayor Councillor Daniswa Mafumbatha said they were happy to see the “great work” that was done by the SMMEs.  “The roads built are beautiful. We can see that the money was spent well. We can see the growth in our SMMEs. I would like to take this opportunity to appreciate the job opportunities that were created on this project. We like what we see. The certificates handed out are not given to people because of their associations, but their hard work and training,” said Mayor Mafumbatha. Mafumbatha added that it was “through the collaboration between the Municipality and SANRAL that the hall was also refurbished”. Dr Mongezi Noah, SANRAL Southern Region Community Development Specialist, told guests that there were more projects coming and that the completion of the community access roads was just the beginning. “I encourage SMMEs to tender to work on other projects. The municipality can utilize the SMMEs from the area who have been developed,” Noah said. Ward 24 Councillor Ntlahla Hlebo said the community was “very happy” the road has been completed and the hall had been refurbished. “Before this new road our road was gravel. In the past during floods there would be big potholes. During heavy rains it was difficult for an ambulance to drive to a house, instead, people had to arrange for a lift or push someone in a wheelbarrow to the R61 and meet the ambulance there. The training the SMMEs received has made them to be among people who will be employable. They can look for work anywhere,” said Hlebo. Nombali Hlongwe, a co-owner of Pumlani Construction was elated with her certificate. “Now that the project is complete I am looking at upgrading to CIDB level 4. I am now looking at tender opportunities. Now that I have completed the project and received the certificate I feel that the world has opened a lot of opportunities for me. The project has been successful for all of us,” said Hlongwe.  Sethu Sibeni from Ngxathi Trading was very happy to have received his NQF level 3 certificate. Sibeni worked as a supervisor on the project. “The community appreciates the new road.  During heavy rains it was not easy to travel on this road. Having a tarred road means that public transport can now access the communities easier. The completion of the access road also means there is quicker access to the R61,” said Sibeni. Sibeni’s goal is to own a block yard and supply local businesses with material. The two-year project created opportunities for 50% women-owned Small Medium and Micro Enterprises (SMMEs), 70% youth-owned SMMEs and jobs for 130 local individuals. The 50 individuals were also trained and received SAQA accredited NQF Level 2 certificates in road construction, the remaining 80 individuals received certificates for technical skills gained on the job. Sixty-four local SMME’s who did not qualify to be part of the construction project, received tendering training for construction contracts. Following the completion of the project, it is anticipated that the following Construction Industry Development Board (CIDB) upgrades will take place, ten Grade 1CEs to Grade 2CE contractors. The training project entailed five phases which included: “The community has benefitted from the contract as the improvement of skills and knowledge is critical to the building of capacity within the community. This will assist the Municipality in supporting the provision of Sustainable Rural, Local and Economic Development,” said Gcobani Socenywa, project manager for SANRAL Southern Region.