The fourth and final phase of the popular Willow Wood Office Park, developed by Heartwood Properties, in Fourways in Gauteng, is currently under construction and due for completion in March next year.  Welcoming global multi-national company, Genesys, who provides a customer engagement solution that is both in the cloud and on premise based to more than 11 000 companies in over 100 countries who will take up nearly half of the new block.  Genesys joins other international firms such as Regus PLC, a London based serviced office company, one of the largest in the world, trading under their Spaces brand, Cronimet Mining, a large international mining company with its head office in Europe, locally produced interior design magazine Habitat, and Cinevation who specialises in cinema adverts who have an on-site studio in the Park.  The office park’s close proximity to major highways, Lanseria’s International Airport and some of Gauteng’s main centres such as Cedar Square shopping centre, Fourways Mall, Dainfern Estate and Steyn City has made it a popular choice for these firms to base their South African head office. Besides location, which is everything in today’s property market, the eco-friendly and modern design of the building is what has scored big points in terms of a pleasant working environment that is proven to enhance employee productivity. Currently the existing buildings are partially fitted with solar panels, however during the final phase of construction, the entire office park will have solar panels, reducing the building’s footprint and saving money on electricity costs. Heartwood Properties also plan to include a special landscaping feature that will provide office workers with stunning views and a natural space to escape to during lunch or for impromptu team meetings. It will also provide the opportunity to hold large functions with ample space for marquees.  On site, employees currently enjoy amenities such as a fully functioning Pilate’s studio, an established coffee shop, 24-hour security, back-up power, basement and shade parking with basement stores available. Approximately 330 jobs are being created during the construction process of Phase 4 and currently there are still offices available to rent. The first floor (751m2) that can be divided into smaller offices from 130m2 with some flexibility for new tenants at this stage. Heartwood Properties, born out of a successful joint venture between Gauteng property developers, Brydens Group and Montagu Property Group, is also the first property company to list on the new 4 Africa Exchange (4AX) offering investors the opportunity to buy shares in the business at the current price of R73x per share.  This type of investment suits high net worth individuals who are looking for fairly direct investment into quality property holdings and developments. 4 AX offers investors guaranteed good governance, transparency and all the controls that go with listed entities. Heartwood focuses primarily on properties in the warehousing and commercial sectors and most of the company’s tenants secure long leases and operate in the medium-to-large owner-managed sector. Pallidus Capital acts as the ongoing external issuer agent of Heartwood Properties.  Future developments include an R80m warehouse and showroom in Northriding with one substantial tenant already secured, and a prime office development in Bryanston that will feature a rooftop venue looking back at the Sandton skyline. Operating predominantly in the Gauteng region Heartwood is also busy expanding into the Cape Town area.