The National Home Builders Registration Council (NHBRC) is an agency of the National Human Settlements Department tasked with the responsibility to provide protection in terms of the Housing Consumers Protection Measures Act (Act No.95 of 1998).  It is mandated to provide protection for housing consumers and to regulate the home building industry. The NHBRC’s operates as a Schedule 3A public entity as per the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 (Act 1 of 1999) with a Council or Board, duly constituted to play an oversight role on behalf of the Government Shareholder. The outcome of the disciplinary process involving four NHBRC executives has recently been concluded, with one case still ongoing. The most serious sanction was a dismissal verdict against the Corporate Services Executive and the Chief Operating Officer was sanctioned with a Final Written Warning. The NHBRC sought Senior Counsel Guidance and were advised to enter into a separation agreement with the Chief Risk Officer. The disciplinary hearing involving the Chief Information Officer is still ongoing, as it was delayed due to lack of availability of their legal counsel. The number of labour disputes faced by the NHBRC for the 2017/2018 financial year to date is 33 (thirty-three). A total of 13 (thirteen) cases were handled at the CCMA and a total of 20 (twenty) cases were handled internally. Although some are still ongoing, numerous have been concluded, including the case of the four executives.  During the current financial year, two employees were dismissed - one employee was dismissed for alleged corruption and the other for failure to discharge their fiduciary duties. NHBRC CEO, Mziwonke Dlabantu was adamant that he will not tolerate any unethical behaviour from anyone in his team. “As an organisation that needs to earn the respect and trust of our stakeholders, the NHBRC occupies a position that demands an impeccable reputation if we are to be perceived as a formidable and ethical regulator. It gives me little pleasure in having to discipline and sometimes fire individuals who do not share the same values as ours at the NHBRC,” said Dlabantu. “Upon joining the organisation in October, 2017, I made a conscious decision to pursue all allegations of unbecoming behaviour in order to instil a sense of trust in those that we serve. A decision to dismiss one of my executives ought to go a long way to demonstrate that no one is above reproach and I am serious in this pursuit to reposition the NHBRC in the hearts and minds of both our employees and stakeholders.” Dlabantu concluded, “Now that we have this sad chapter behind us and a new Council to provide strategic oversight, I am more convinced that we have the requisite skill and experience to truly turn the tide and transform the NHBRC into a formidable and ethical regulator we can all pride ourselves with”.