With its successful record in the fast track construction of high-end projects, Concor Buildings has been awarded the prestigious Illovo Central contract. This 17-storey mixed-use development near Sandton is due for completion in January 2020.  According to Fanie Stadler, contracts director at Concor Buildings, the company is excited to have earned this opportunity, which is the second of four planned mixed-use buildings on the exclusive new Illovo precinct being developed by FWJK. “Concor Buildings has a strong foundation of project successes with fast track, high-end structures, based on our extensive experience in the built environment and our commitment to quality workmanship,” says Stadler. “Our recently completed projects in this segment include the landmark Embassy Towers development in Sandton and we are also well advanced on the prestigious Oxford Parks development in Rosebank.”  The scope of work comprises the construction of the building and its basement parking, as well as the associated earthworks, lateral support, minor public road upgrades and related external work. The structure’s footprint is almost 18,000 square metres. Designed by FWJK Architecture, Illovo Central focuses on design and operational efficiency in conjunction with aesthetic appeal in keeping with the architectural vernacular established in the node.  “This development will be built using the latest materials and building techniques, and will meet the highest environmental standards,” he says. “This includes being highly energy efficient, which along with water-saving features will greatly reduce operating costs.” As a mixed-use project, it will comprise 152 sectional title apartments while offering full amenities including commercial and retail space, restaurants and an executive rest centre. The apartments will range in size from 22 square metre studio apartments to much larger 651 square metre four‑bedroom penthouse apartments.  The development’s popularity is enhanced by its equidistant proximity to both the Sandton and Rosebank Gautrain stations, and its position on the interlinking Gautrain bus route. With the Illovo node in an exponential growth phase, this addition to the skyline will share the highest elevation in the greater Sandton area with Illovo Point. “Concor Buildings’ use of sound construction methodologies, and our stringent safety protocols to ensure Zero Harm on our sites give us the ability to deliver projects on time and within budget. We look forward to completing another upmarket project to the satisfaction of all stakeholders,” says Stadler.